# Midterm Prep

## 錯題本

1(b) $b_n=(-1)^n(\frac{n^2+cos(2n+3)}{n-2})^{\frac{1}{n}}$

$\sum (-1)^n sin(\frac{2n+1}{n^3+5})$

When seeing alternating series, check absolute convergence first. If $\sum u_n$ converges, by **absolute convergence test**, the series $\sum a_n$ is convergent. Otherwise, evaluate $\sum a_n$. If $\sum a_n$ converges, it is conditionally convergent. 

# Ch10

1. 

2. Summarize tests.

---

1. ans:
   1. The n-th Term Test: if $\lim a_n \neq 0$ or nonexisting
   2. Geometric series $\sum ar^n$ converges when $|r|\lt 1$
   3. p-series $\sum \frac{1}{n^p}$ converges when $p \gt 1$
   4. Series with nonnegative terms: try Integral Test, Ratio Test, Root Test; try Comparison Test, Limit Comparison Test.
   5. Series with some negative terms
   6. Alternating series: Meeting PNZ of Alternating Series Test $\implies$ convergence.

## 10.9 Convergence of Taylor Series

1. State **Taylor's Theorem**. How to prove it?
2. State **Taylor's Formula**
3. State the **Remainder Estimation Theorem**

---

## 10.8 Taylor and Maclaurin Series

1. Define **Taylor series generated by** $f$ **at** $x=a$ ? **Maclaurin series generated by** $f$ .
2. How can Taylor series relate to power series?
3. Define **Taylor polynomial  of order** $n$ , $P_n(x)$ , generated by $f$ **at** $x=a$ .
4. Does $P_n$ always exist? Give examples. What is the trick in this example?

---

1. $\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}\frac{f^{(n)}(a)}{n!}(x-a)^n$. Maclaurin series $a=0$

2. If $f(x)$ has a power series expansion at $a$, then that expansion _is_ Taylor series generated by $f$ at $x=a$. 

3. $P_n(x)=\sum_{i=0}^{n}\frac{f^{(i)}(a)}{n!}(x-a)^i$

4. $f(x)=0$ for $x=0$, $e^{-1/x^2}$ for $x \ne 0$

## 10.7 Power Series

1. Define **power series about** $x=a$ . What do we call $a$ , $c_i$ ?

2. State **the convergence theorem for power series**. Explain what is **radius of convergence** and **interval of convergence**

3. How to test a power series for convergence?

4. What are the facts about sums, differences, and products of power series?

5. State the theorem that a power series about $x=0$ is substituted by a continuous function $f(x)$ on $|f(x)| \lt R$. What is the most convenient example?

6. What is **term-by-term differentiation theorem**? Give examples.

7. What is **term-by-term integration theorem**? Give examples.

8. What should be *never forgot* in the solution?

9. What is the *limitation* of term-by-term differentiation/integration theorem?

---

1. $\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}c_n x^n$, a sum of positive integer powers of $x$. Center, coefficient.

2. Power series converges with 3 ways: $|x-a|\lt R$, $x=a$, or for all $x\in R$

3. Use Ratio or Root Test to find the interval where the series converges absolutely. _Remember to check two endpoints_.

4. $\sum a_n x^n + \sum b_n x^n =\sum (a_n+b_n)x^n$
   $(\sum a_n x^n)(\sum b_n x^n) =\sum c_nx^n$, where  $c_n=\sum a_k b_{n-k}$

5. If $\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}c_n x^n$ converges absolutely for $|x| \lt R$, then $\sum_{n=0}^{\infty}c_n f(x)^n$ converges absolutely for any continuous function $f$ on $|f(x)| \lt R$. ${1}/(1-x)=\sum_{0}^{\infty}x^n$

6. $\frac{1}{(1+x)^2}$, $\frac{1}{(1+x)^3}$

7. $ln(1+x)$, $\arctan(x)$

8. Interval of convergence

9. They work only on power series. Series in other forms like $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{sin(n!x)}{n^2}$, $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{n! cos(n!x)}{n^2}$ can not be solved this way.

## 10.5 The Ratio and Root Test

1. What is the __Ratio Test__? What are hypotheses? How to prove this theorem?  Give examples. Explain where this test can be most effective.

2. What is the __Root Test__? What are hypotheses? How to prove this theorem? Give examples. Explain where this test can be most effective.

---

1. Hypothesis: $\lim_{n \to \infty} |\frac{a_{n+1}}{a_n}|$ exists. Effective for factorial terms and terms like $2^n$, $3^n$, etc

2. Hypothesis: $\lim_{n \to \infty} \sqrt[n]{|a_n|}$ exists. Most effective for ${[f(x)]^n}$.

## 10.6 Alternating Series

1. Define **alternating series**

2. What is **alternating series test** (**Leibniz's test**) ? What 3 conditions should be satisfied?

3. What to watch for when applying alternating series test?

4. What does **the alternating series estimation theorem** say?

5. Define **absolutely convergent series** or in verb form **a series converges absolutely**

6. Define the term **conditionally convergent series** or **a series converges conditionally**. Give examples. 

7. What is **the absolute convergence test**? Evaluate the converse statement. 

8. State **rearrangement theorem for absolutely convergent series**

---

1. $\sum (-1)^n u_n$

2. Positive, nonincreasing, approaching zero (*Play in New Zealand*). Meeting the conditions of Alternating Series Test guarantees convergence. But it says nothing about divergence.

3. To stay positive, it may be necessary to strip first several terms. To prove nonincreasing, it may require differentiation by forming a continuous function and prove it differentiable. After differentiation, it gives values of $N$ such that $n \gt N$ implies $u_n \ge u_{n+1}$. Mathematical Induction and other obvious rules may help too. To prove approaching zero, it may require to use L'Hoptial Rule.

4. The sum would be between $s_n$ and $s_{n+1}$. The absolute value of the error would be less than $u_n$, the first unused term without its sign.

5. If $\sum|a_n|$ converges, then we call $\sum a_n$ converges absolutely.

6. If $\sum a_n$ converges but $\sum|a_n|$ diverges, then we call $\sum a_n$ converges conditionally. Alternating harmonic series $\sum (-1)^n \frac{1}{n}$.

7. If $\sum|a_n|$ converges, then $\sum a_n$ converges. The converse statement is wrong.

8. Rearranging terms of an absolutely convergent series will not change the result, while rearranging terms of conditionally convergent series will.

## 10.4 Comparison Test

1. What is **comparison test**? State the  the conditions?

2. What is **limit comparison test**? There are 3 propositions.
   What is the condition of this test?

3. Write the commonly used comparison functions.

---

1. If $\sum b_n$ converges and $\forall n \gt N$, $a_n \le b_n$, then $\sum a_n$ converges. 
   If $\sum a_n$ diverges and $\forall n \gt N$, $a_n \le b_n$, then $\sum b_n$ diverges.
   Condition: $a_n$, $b_n \ge 0$ for $n \gt N$. That is, as long as $a_n$, $b_n$ stay positive above a certain positive integer N, the comparison test works.

2. $\lim \frac{a_n}{b_n} = L$
   $0 \lt L \lt \infty$, both converge or diverge.
   $L=0$ and $\sum b_n$ converges, $\sum a_n$ converges.
   $L \to \infty$ and $\sum b_n$ diverges, $\sum a_n$ diverges. 
   Condition: $a_n, b_n \gt 0$ for $n \gt N$.

3. $1 \le \log n \le n \le n \log n \le n^2 \le 2^n \le n!$
   Constant, logrithmic, linear, linearithmic, power, exponential, factorial

## 10.3 The Integral Test

1. What does the Monotonic Sequence Theorem imply?

2. How to use the Integral Test?

3. What are the bounds for the remainder in the Integral Test? 
   Why? Explain it.

---

1. A series of nonnegative terms converge $\iff$ its partial sums are bounded from above

2. First state the premises: **continuous, positive, decreasing** (_Chicago Police Department_) function $f(x)$ for all $x \ge N$ , where $N$ is a positive integer. **Notice** the relation between $x$ and $N$ is **greater or equal**. Then by the Integral Test, both $\sum_{n=N}^{\infty}a_n$ and $\int_{N}^{\infty}f(x)dx$ converge or both diverge. **Notice** the value of $\int_{N}^{\infty}f(x)dx$ does **NOT** mean where the series converge to. For $f(x)$ to be continuous, __properties of continuous functions__ say that sums/differences/constant multiples/products/quotients/powers/roots/composite of continuous functions are also continuous. __Derivative Sum/Constant Multiple/Product/Quotient Rule__ says that operations of differentiable fucntions are also differentiable.

3. Error estimation: $\int_{n+1}^{\infty}f(x)dx \le R_n \le \int_{n}^{\infty}f(x)dx$

## 10.2 Infinite series

1. Define the following terms: **infinite series**, **n-the term** of the series, **partial sum**, the series **converges** and its sum is $L$

2. Give examples of infinite series

3. What is **the nth term test for divergence**. State its contrapositive.

4. How does combining series affect the convergence of a series?

----

1. Sum of infinite sequence of numbers

2. Geometric series, repeating decimals, telescoping series $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{n(n+1)}$

3. If $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n$ fails to exist or $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n \neq 0$ , then $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}a_n$ diverges

4. Adding or deleting a finite number of terms will not alter the convergence or divergence of a series. Reindexing will not alter either as long as _the order of its terms_ are preserved.

## 10.1 Sequences

1. Define **sequence**, **terms** of a sequence, **index** of $a_n$

2. Define __the sequence__ { $a_n$ } __converges to the number__ $L$. Define __the sequence diverges__. How to express **the limit of the sequence**.

3. Define __the sequence__ { $a_n$ } **diverges to infinity**, **the sequence diverges to negative infinity**.

4. What are 5 rules to calculate limits of sequences? What is the premise for these 5 rules?

5. Categorize two kinds of sequences.

6. State **the sandwich theorem for sequences** for sequences defined by $n$

7. State **the continuous function theorem for sequences** for sequences defined by $n$

8. Decide L by using **L'Hopital's Rule** for sequences defined by $n$.

9. Write down where these six sequences converge to: 
   $\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{\ln n}{n}$
   $\lim_{n \to \infty}\sqrt[n]{n}$
   $\lim_{n \to \infty}x^{1/n}$ ($x \gt 0$)
   $\lim_{n \to \infty}x^n$ ($|x| \lt 1$)
   $\lim_{n \to \infty}(1 + \frac{x}{n})^n$
   $\lim_{x \to \infty}\frac{x^n}{n!}$

10. Define what is __recursely defined sequences__. How to decide whether a recursively defined sequence converges?

11. What is __monotonic sequence__?
- Nondecreasing or nonincreasing sequence

What is **bounded from above**, **upper bound**, **least upper bound**?
bounded from below, lower bound, greatest lower bound  
bounded sequence or unbounded  

State __the monotonic sequence theorem__

- 單調有界數列必然收歛，收歛未必單調

---

1. An ordered list of numbers.

2. $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n=L$ or $a_n \rightarrow L$

3. $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n=\infty$ or $a_n \rightarrow \infty$

4. _Smart dogs chase purple quails_: sum, difference, constant multiple, product, quotient rules under the conditions that both { $a_n$ } and { $b_n$ } converge.

5. Sequence directly defined by $n$ and recursive sequences.

6. $b_n \le a_n \le c_n$ for all $n \gt N$. If $\lim_{n \to \infty}b_n = \lim_{n \to \infty}c_n=L$, then $\lim_{n \to \infty} a_n = L$

7. If $a_n \rightarrow L$ and $f(x)$ is continuous function at $x=L$, then $f(a_n)=f(L)$

8. x

9. x

10. A sequence is given 

11. 1. the value of the first term or values of first terms 
    2. a __recursive formula__. First check monotonicity and boundedness. Then compute the limit.

12. x

13. x

14. x

---

## 參考書目

Weir, Maurice D, Joel Hass, and George B Thomas. Thomas’ Calculus. 12th ed. Boston: Addison-Wesley, 2010. Print.

王懷權. 數學分析基礎. 初版. 新竹市: 清大出版社, 2013. Print.
